Peter: Whenever I give a talk somewhere to
a general audience about robots, somebody
always asks me the question about jobs; won’t
robots take our jobs away? And the argument
I usually make is 'yeah, they're going to
take some jobs away and that's uncomfortable,
but the alternative is if we don't have robots
working in factories, the likelihood is we
will lose the industry entirely.'
So we're making a bit of a trade. We're going
to keep the industry, for instance, we're
going to keep manufacturing automobiles in
a high labor cost country and it's going to
employ some people and it's going to employ
some taxes and there's going to be a big knock
on economic benefit, but yeah, absolutely,
it will have some impact on jobs.
More recently, there's been quite a bit written
about the so-called new machine age where
a whole raft the jobs, not necessarily manual
labor jobs, a lot of so-called knowledge worker
jobs will perhaps disappear, like interpreting
X-rays and writing financial reports. Now
these are jobs now that are on the line.
There's a once upon a time very famous philosopher,
Voltaire, talked about the virtues of work
and many of us define ourselves or our identity,
our self-esteem, it’s all wrapped up in
work. So this seems to me perhaps the most exquisitely complex of all the topics that we've talked about today.
What does ethics say about this?
Doug: Our identity is locked up in what we
do often for most of us. And our fundamental
moral philosophy that guides most of us comes
out of John Locke's theory of labor. John
Locke's theory of labor is the foundation
to the rights to property. And that in itself
set up the property rights basis of the American
Constitution.
So the rights to property and how we define
ourselves and how we define our culture is
locked up in what we do. And it's entrenched
in terms of liberal democracy, the labor theory,
and utilitarianism; all three of those philosophical perspectives guide us in terms of how we set our values.
Now with respect to machines replacing humans,
you'll be very familiar with the Luddite revolution.
Peter: Absolutely.
Doug: During the early industrial revolution.
Peter: The guys with big hammers.
Doug: Yep. They went in and they smashed all
the cotton mills. I think it's about 1790.
They went in there and just went to town on
the cotton mills because they're afraid, and
they were quite right in this, that the cotton
mills are going to replace their jobs. And they did.
Of course, the Luddites were all duly hanged
very quickly. Victorian rules for misconduct
were some of the most severe in the history
in the world but thank heavens we don't have
so many hard laws anymore.
But the Luddites had a justified position.
However, that's been with us since machines
been with us, that fear. That innate fear
that we're going to lose not only our jobs,
but our identity and who we are.
Peter: And since industrialisation here, so
many jobs have been created and then disappeared.
Doug: Correct. It seems to ebb and flow. We're
getting more and more people in the labor
market. Australia in the last 50 years has
doubled in population. We have more people working.
So I might be a little ignorant on this, but
from what I can see is that we adapt. It's
one of the most interesting things about the
human being, is our ability to adapt and to
change. And we seem to be doing that.
And so, this innate fear of losing our jobs
to machines seems to be unfounded. However,
I understand it. In terms of ethics, really,
it's not an ethical position that you can
take. I guess individuals need to have the
autonomy to choose and to be able to work
and to be able to live in a free environment
and to have access to those resources, so
that's very important ethically.
But the argument that machines are going to
take that away, I've seen some evidence of
it recently with the closure of the Holden
facilities in South Australia, but bottom
line is - now we're talking about submarines,
I think, yesterday on the news?
Peter: Yep.
Doug: And integrating maybe more work back
into Australia and send it off, putting it
into Japan for re-designing and rebuilding
submarines back in Australia. So, it ebbs and flows.
Peter: So in the case of an individual, if
they don't have a job, the ethical consideration
here is whether we impinge on their autonomy.
Doug: Yes, correct. And there are basic right
to have a fulfilled life in this culture.
Peter: But in our culture a fulfilled life
usually includes a job.
Doug: Well, it includes the right to work
and the right to have access to work and resources.
Yes, it does.
Peter: So we could put a roof over people's
heads, we can make sure that they're not hungry
and so they would be in some sense looked after, comfortable, but they may not have the option of a job.
Doug: Yeah. I think the bigger question is, are machines taking away jobs? In other words, if we look at…
Peter: In an overall sense.
Peter: Yes, they're going to take away some
but then other jobs are going to come.
Doug: And other jobs will be created with
the machines, so there seems to be a balance
there. And as always, there's a balance, and
I think that there's a cohesion in terms of
the creation of jobs and the loss of jobs
that seems to be working on. I don't have
stats on that but that would be an interesting…
Peter: I mean, it's the way it's gone for
hundred years or more.
Doug: Absolutely, yeah.
Peter: The issue is whether we're going to
some kind of tipping point where suddenly
that no longer holds, and there is some books
that say that that's case, but I don't think
we- I'm not sure anyone can make a hybrid
hard or firm prediction about that.
Doug: Yeah, so I don't have an answer to that
because if it's the case, let's project…
Peter: Okay.
Doug: If it's the case, say, in 100 years,
that machines have really pretty much replaced you and me.
Peter: Yup.
Doug: We don't need professors anymore, we've
got an android there that forgot more about
ethics than Doug Baker will ever know, and
we've got another one over here that, well,
he's got Peter Corke's brain programmed into
him and he's got about three more other brains
programmed into him and he can teach everything
there is about robotics.
So the question then is this, what are guys
like you and me do? We'll probably be doing
something but I'm not sure what. And the question
then is if we have the jobs taken over by
machines, what do humans do? Do we get value
for that or maybe we retire at the age of
30, or maybe we don't work? I don't know.
Peter: Which is the other thing that I think
is we grow up. We talked about that the people
would be retiring earlier and all this, and
that didn't happen either.
Doug: No.
Peter: The retirement age is going up.
Doug: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely,
it is going up. I don't know what that's about.
Peter: No, but I think it's a bad idea.
Doug: That's true. But I think that, in terms
of ethics, the taking away of jobs, I think
we need to look at the bigger picture and
the balance of what's created and what's taken
away before we can make that argument. But
it really isn't an argument for ethics. It
can be an argument for autonomy but overall,
I don't see that's an ethical issue. Not at all.